PCS & JP Morgan

1. High level vision for the web site and/or mobile app. i.e. if we had technology X Pancreatic Cancer Scotland could achieve Y.

Pancreatic Cancer Scotland’s website should be our shop window for people browsing for information about Pancreatic Cancer in Scotland.

Imagine you or family member or friend have been diagnosed with pancreatic cancer, or you have symptoms. 

You go online to find out about symptoms, diagnosis, treatment, potential outcomes, what support is available and also how you might be able to help through fundraising or volunteering. That should be our vision for the website – to provide that information.

Pancreatic Cancer Scotland’s aims to work and collaborate with the government, health boards, pharmaceutical companies, health professionals, industries, patients, families, supporters and other charities to;

•	Increase awareness about Pancreatic Cancer
o	To improve earlier diagnosis that can dramatically increase chances of survival
o	90% of pancreatic cancer diagnosis’ are too late

•	Invest in and campaign for more research in Scotland
o	To improve earlier diagnosis, treatment and the chances of survival which have remained flat for 40-years
o	Only 4% of people with pancreatic cancer live beyond 5-years

•	Support and care
o	To support patients and their families by directing them to places that can inform, support and care.

•	The website should contain information about; 

o	The pancreas
o	Symptoms
o	Treatment
o	Support from other charities like Maggie’s, MacMillan and PCUK

Some of the information on our current website is good – it just needs to be presented in a cleaner and more user-friendly manner.

See the likes of PCUK’s website http://www.pancreaticcancer.org.uk 

PCRF http://www.pcrf.org.uk 

PCA https://pancreaticcanceraction.org/ (not available in Safari for some reason)

It is OK to use information that they share on their website if it is basic information and stats. All 4 pancreatic cancer charities use the same stats etc.


2. The event takes place the weekend of the 7th/8th, normal format is for Pancreatic Cancer to make the pitch to the students in the morning, along with other charities, the students then choose which challenge they would like to pick up. We then have a more in depth meeting between the students and the charity, usually lasting between 40 - 60 mins where the students ask for specifics of the projects. The charities usually have representatives on site for the weekend, you're not expected to stay overnight but can if you want :-) Be good if you can have some tech representative from Pancreatic Cancer there but understand the current situation may not be possible due to current tech person being ill.

Unfortunately the supporter/trustee that created the PCS website is seriously ill. As PCS has been entirely volunteer led until recently, we do not have any other skilled tech knowledge or experience available.

Ross Carter will be along at the start of the day with Murray Easton who will be able to stay for a large part if required. A speaker (tbc) will also be in attendance.

Murray Easton will also come back on Sunday and be available at any time on 07729 390 558

3. Think about the angle of your pitch, probably based on what Ross comes back with from point 1. I see it along the lines of what we discussed yesterday, survival rates flat, we need an innovative/eye-catching web site to raise awareness, make a difference and provide information on points 4-6 below. Pitch it as a technical design challenge.

Projections by the Information Services Division (ISD) Scotland show 5,596 people in Scotland are predicted to be diagnosed with pancreatic cancer between 2023-2027 – that represents a massive rise of 50%.

We are talking about a 50% increase in the number of vases of the cancer with the worst survival rate, with just 4% of patients diagnosed with the disease currently surviving 5-years or more.

We are different in Scotland. We have a different heath board, easier access to government officials – we can get things done, we have the opportunity to lead the way. 

Something needs to be done to improve survivor rates – earlier diagnosis, lifestyle changes (smoking and obesity), raised awareness, more funding for research….

Having an up to date informative and supportive website is a small step but a vital one. We can’t campaign and fundraise with our current website – it just isn’t suitable.

4. What data can pancreatic cancer provide in general, but also in terms of creating a heatmap of survival by region (Age, sex, size of regional population, cancer stage 1-4, time to diagnosis, time until treatment started, treatment time, type of treatment etc etc)

Please find some fantastic information below that has been pulled together by David Parks at Pancreatic Cancer UK

•	Scotland specific stats
http://www.pancreaticcancer.org.uk/media/478139/scotland-key-statistics.pdf

•	Info lifted from the following source, further stats available
http://www.isdscotland.org/Health-Topics/Cancer/Cancer-Statistics/Pancreatic/

•	Further info available here (note this is produced annually)
http://www.shpbn.scot.nhs.uk/images/stories/SHPBN/The_2013_HPB_Quality_Performance_Indicator_Audit_Report_v1_0_17th_March_2015.pdf


5. Information that the web site should provide: Awareness, lobbying, early diagnosis, self-checking guide, funding, charity in need, video diaries, voting buttons, research results, link the treatment community (those diagnosed, their families, the health system).


This is probably where we could take some advice, in that sense the new website is a little bit of a blank canvas. However it should definitely contain;

•	About PCS
•	Symptoms, diagnosis, awareness
•	Scottish stats – as above. UK/worldwide stats could also be used.
•	Support – from the likes of PCUK, Maggie’s and MacMillan
•	Other Pancreatic Cancer charities
•	Information about Pancreatic Cancer Awareness month every November
•	Achievements to date – we are just about to confirm some research projects in Scotland
•	Volunteering and fundraising
•	Donate (perhaps this should be on the home-page with About PCS)
•	Contact

The option for a news/blog would be excellent. E.g could the likes of Tumblr or Blogger be linked to the website so we could produce a monthly blog/newsletter.

We would like to have some videos – but this is something we will need to work on. So perhaps a page that could become live in the future with videos?

6. We discussed an app in the meeting, this could be one of three things - replication of the web site, something to educate GPs (if this is the case we need the information on what the form of that education should be), or something completely different.

There may be potential to do something in the future regarding an app to educate GP’s – this would be very forward thinking. 

However in the short to medium term, an app that replicates the website would be best, although we would be very open to any ideas or suggestions that the students would have.
